>> Richard Feldman: Sources of truth,
we're gonna talk about a few
different topics here.
One is impossible states and
the making impossible there of.
Derived data,
authentication and JavaScript.
Okay, lets start with
some impossible states.
So when we're talking
about sources of truth,
generally speaking these break down
into a few different categories.
One of which is essentially do I have
agreement on where a particular piece
of information lives.
So let's say I have a model that has
selectedTag which is a string to represent
which particular tag I have selected.
And then let say for some reason.
I have another field, I call
theSelectedTag which is also a string.
Okay, which one's right?
They're both claiming to represent
the currently selected tag.
We have sort of multiple
alleged sources of truth, here.
It's even worse if I'm actually
using them in different places,
like in some cases I'm setting the one but
not the other.
In another case as I'm reading the one but
That's going to lead to all sorts
of nasty blogs if I'm doing that.
So hopefully, we can avoid something like
this when we're designing our models.
But usually, it's trickier than that.
Usually, it's less obvious.
It's not that you have two things
that are the same name but
rather that you have some piece of data
that is nested somewhere in some record or
nested in some custom type that represents
the same piece of information as some
other piece of data that's nested
somewhere else in some other thing.
A classic example of this is the current
user or the current username.
Sometimes that might appear in
multiple different places and
as long as they all agree,
maybe there's no problem.
But if they can get out of sync, and then
different parts of the UI think that we
have a different current username,
that can cause a problem.
Okay,
>> Richard Feldman: So when I first built
out that tab box that we saw a moment ago,
this is what I had as a design.
I'm sorry not that part of the tab box,
but rather this part.
This is the The global feed,
your feed, and
then the tag if you have
one of those tags selected.
So each of these is a tab.
I could represent these
in this way which I have.
A name which is a string,
so Your Feed, Global Feed,
or perhaps the name of the tag that we've
selected, so dragons or happiness or elm,
or whatever those things may be.
And I can store a Boolean for
whether or not it's the active tab.
The problem with this is that it allows
an impossible state to be represented.
It is entirely possible that we end
up with multiple tabs that have
active set to true as is
evidence in the bottom here.
And this is not a contrived example
because actually when I was browsing their
react reducts example for this project,
the real world app, I encountered this.
In fact, this just, I don't remember how I
got it, but I was just clicking around and
somehow I ended up with two
different tabs selected.
This is I would guess probably a symptom
of the fact that in React it's encouraged
to use components that have local state.
They manage their own state.
In this case,
that's a source of potential bugs in
the form of multiple sources of truth.
Each of them thinks that
they are the active tab but
in fact there can only be one active tab.
That is one of our rules for these tabs.
And so if each of them thinks that they
can potentially be it without having any
innate coordination with the others,
that means they can potentially end
up in a situation where we have
multiple competing sources of truth and
bugs as a consequence like this.
Where we ended up with this
is a different structure.
So we have type tab and
this represents which tab we're on.
It sort of inverts that and
says you know what?
We're only gonna have one source
of truth for what tab we're on.
We're going to enumerate the three
possibilities which is to say your feed is
the active tab.
The global feed is the active tab.
Or we have a particular tag feed and
if so,
we also have the tag that is associated
with that, so dragons or whatever else.
So this is a custom type that enumerates
all of the possible states completely,
and it's one source of truth for
all of them.
So we don't have the possibility
of competition just stores,
this is the tab that we're on like this.
So this becomes impossible.
This is an impossible state that we have
made impossible by virtue of modeling our
data differently.
As a consequence we've now
reduced our multiple sources of
truth down to just one.
I did a whole talk on this
concept a couple of years ago.
It's called "Making
Impossible States Impossible".
It talks about techniques like this in a
variety of different scenarios so we won't
go into too much detail on that right
now except to note that this is one form
of potential multiple sources of truth
causing problems is impossible states.